README.md, before:

# Dev.to Mirror — The Set-and-Forget AI Crawler

🔗 **Live Site:** [anchildress1.github.io/devto-mirror](https://anchildress1.github.io/devto-mirror/)



![anchildress1/devto-mirror social card: A colorful crawler](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/blob/main/assets/devto-mirror.jpg)

This Copilot generated utility helps make your Dev.to blogs more discoverable by search engines by automatically generating and hosting a mirror site with generous `robots.txt` rules. Avoiding Dante’s DevOps and the maintenance headache. This is a simple html, no frills approach with a sitemap and robots.tx — _that's it_ (although I'm slowly working through enhancements). If you're like me and treat some comments as mini-posts, you can selectively pull in the ones that deserve their own page.

> [!NOTE]
>
> I'm slowly accepting that one or two brave souls might actually read my strong (and usually correct) opinions. 😅 I'm also always looking for ways to improve AI results across the board, because... well, _somebody_ has to. 🧠
>
> The internet already changed — blink and you missed it. We don't Google anymore; we ask ChatGPT (the wise ones even ask for sources). 🤖
>  - **When I searched**: my [Dev.to](https://dev.to/anchildress1) showed up just as expected
>  - **When I asked Gemini the same thing**: crickets. 🦗
>
> So yeah, obvious disconnect... Also, I'm _not_ hosting a blog on my domain (I'm a backend dev; hosting a pretty blog + analytics sounds like a relaxing afternoon with Dante's DevOps. Hard pass. 🔥🫠), but I still want control of `robots.txt.`
>
> **Enter the five-minute ChatGPT fix:** a tiny static mirror with canonicals back to **Dev.to** — no domain, no analytics — just (practically) instantly crawlable 😉🐜.
>
> P.S. "Five minutes" usually means two hours. Acceptable losses. 😅 And seriously, writing this blurb took longer than the code. 🤨 Alright.... **3 hours** (it took me an hour to get the picture just right, enough anyway). Still worth it! 😅
>
> — Ashley 🦄

---

## Repo Stuff

[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Polyform_Shield_1.0.0-yellow?style=flat)](./LICENSE) ![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat) ![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/anchildress1/devto-mirror?style=flat) ![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/anchildress1/devto-mirror?style=flat)

[![Publish Dev.to Mirror Site](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/publish.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main&style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/publish.yaml) [![CodeQL Analysis](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/codeql.yml) [![Security and Lint CI](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/security-ci.yml/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/security-ci.yml)

![Python Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/toml?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fanchildress1%2Fdevto-mirror%2Frefs%2Fheads%2F001-upgrade-the-python%2Fpyproject.toml&query=%24.project.requires-python&style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=fff&label=Python&color=3776AB) ![Jinja Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jinja-7E0C1B?logo=jinja&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Pages Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Pages-222?logo=githubpages&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Actions Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Actions-2088FF?logo=githubactions&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Copilot Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Copilot-000?logo=githubcopilot&logoColor=fff&style=flat)

 [![BuyMeACoffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20Me%20a%20Coffee-ffdd00?logo=buy-me-a-coffee&logoColor=black&style=flat)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/anchildress1) [![dev.to Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/dev.to-0A0A0A?logo=devdotto&logoColor=fff&style=flat)](https://dev.to/anchildress1) [![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%230077B5.svg?logo=linkedin\&logoColor=white&style=flat)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anchildress1/)

## What is this?

Auto-generates a static mirror of your Dev.to blog with generous `robots.txt` for AI crawlers. Simple HTML, sitemap, canonical links — zero maintenance.

---

## Quick Setup ⚡

1. Fork this repo
2. Set repository variable: Settings → Actions → Variables → Add `DEVTO_USERNAME`
3. Delete `gh-pages` branch if it exists
4. Run workflow: [Actions → "Generate and Publish Dev.to Mirror Site" → Run workflow](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions)
5. Enable Pages: Settings → Pages → Deploy from branch → `gh-pages`

Done. Auto-updates weekly (Wednesdays) at 9:40 AM EDT.

---

## How it works

- Fetches posts via Dev.to API (incremental updates via `last_run.txt` timestamp)
- Generates HTML files with canonical links back to Dev.to
- Creates sitemap, robots.txt, index
- Optional: Include special comments as standalone pages via `comments.txt`

**Refresh everything:** Actions → "Generate and Publish Dev.to Mirror Site" and set `force_full_regen` to `true` (creates backup, wipes, regenerates)

---

## Local Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror.git
cd devto-mirror
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e '.[dev]'
export DEVTO_USERNAME="your-username"
export PAGES_REPO="your-username/devto-mirror"

# Run tests
python -m unittest

# Run quality checks
pre-commit run --all-files

# Generate site
python scripts/generate_site.py
```

### Local Security & Linting

Install hooks: `pre-commit install`
Run checks: `pre-commit run --all-files`
Manual audit: `pip-audit --progress-spinner=off`

Runs: `bandit`, `flake8`, `detect-secrets`, `pip-audit`

## Workflows

We maintain four primary GitHub Actions workflows. Key changes in this branch:

- `security-ci.yml`: Uses Python 3.11 for dependency installation, runs `pip-audit`, `bandit`, and `flake8`. Adds `workflow_dispatch` for manual testing and enforces least-privilege permissions.
- `codeql.yml`: Runs CodeQL analysis via `github/codeql-action@v3` with Python analysis enabled. Includes `workflow_dispatch` and explicit permissions.
- `publish.yaml`: Now scheduled weekly on Wednesdays at `09:38 AM EDT` (cron `38 13 * * 3`), uses Python 3.11 and deploys to `gh-pages`.
- `refresh.yaml`: Manual `workflow_dispatch` trigger that creates a backup branch, resets `last_run.txt`, and triggers the publish workflow.

All workflows include `workflow_dispatch` to allow manual runs from the Actions UI and use `actions/setup-python@v6` with caching enabled for `pip`.

---

## License 📄

Every project has to have a stack of fine print somewhere. _Keep going, keep going, keep going..._ Here's mine, as painless as possible:

You know where [the license](./LICENSE) is, but I'll sum it up: **this is not open source** (even though you can still do just about anything you want with it). As long as you're not turning it into the next big SaaS or selling subscriptions in the cloud, then have fun! Else, **you've gotta ask me first.**

Basically? This project's got boundaries. Be cool, don't try to sneak it into a product launch, and we'll get along just fine. 😘

Commit message:

feat(crawler): Implement robots.txt enforcement testing and restructure docs (#18)
- Add restrictive robots.txt template blocking 6+ crawlers for testing
- Create crawler access testing script with 12 major search engines/AI bots
- Add GitHub Pages analysis script comparing expected vs actual behavior
- Enhance CI workflow with deployment verification and GitHub Summary
- Restructure documentation into organized docs/implementations/ directory

Generated-by: Kiro <kiro@kiro.ai>

Signed-off-by: Ashley Childress <6563688+anchildress1@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Dev.to Mirror — The Set-and-Forget AI Crawler

🔗 **Live Site:** [anchildress1.github.io/devto-mirror](https://anchildress1.github.io/devto-mirror/)



![anchildress1/devto-mirror social card: A colorful crawler](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/blob/main/assets/devto-mirror.jpg)

This Copilot generated utility helps make your Dev.to blogs more discoverable by search engines by automatically generating and hosting a mirror site with generous `robots.txt` rules. Avoiding Dante’s DevOps and the maintenance headache. This is a simple html, no frills approach with a sitemap and robots.tx — _that's it_ (although I'm slowly working through enhancements). If you're like me and treat some comments as mini-posts, you can selectively pull in the ones that deserve their own page.

> [!NOTE]
>
> I'm slowly accepting that one or two brave souls might actually read my strong (and usually correct) opinions. 😅 I'm also always looking for ways to improve AI results across the board, because... well, _somebody_ has to. 🧠
>
> The internet already changed — blink and you missed it. We don't Google anymore; we ask ChatGPT (the wise ones even ask for sources). 🤖
>  - **When I searched**: my [Dev.to](https://dev.to/anchildress1) showed up just as expected
>  - **When I asked Gemini the same thing**: crickets. 🦗
>
> So yeah, obvious disconnect... Also, I'm _not_ hosting a blog on my domain (I'm a backend dev; hosting a pretty blog + analytics sounds like a relaxing afternoon with Dante's DevOps. Hard pass. 🔥🫠), but I still want control of `robots.txt.`
>
> **Enter the five-minute ChatGPT fix:** a tiny static mirror with canonicals back to **Dev.to** — no domain, no analytics — just (practically) instantly crawlable 😉🐜.
>
> P.S. "Five minutes" usually means two hours. Acceptable losses. 😅 And seriously, writing this blurb took longer than the code. 🤨 Alright.... **3 hours** (it took me an hour to get the picture just right, enough anyway). Still worth it! 😅
>
> — Ashley 🦄

---

## Repo Stuff

[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Polyform_Shield_1.0.0-yellow?style=flat)](./LICENSE) ![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg?style=flat) ![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/anchildress1/devto-mirror?style=flat) ![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/anchildress1/devto-mirror?style=flat)

[![Publish Dev.to Mirror Site](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/publish.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main&style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/publish.yaml) [![CodeQL Analysis](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/codeql.yml) [![Security and Lint CI](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/security-ci.yml/badge.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions/workflows/security-ci.yml)

![Python Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/toml?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fanchildress1%2Fdevto-mirror%2Frefs%2Fheads%2F001-upgrade-the-python%2Fpyproject.toml&query=%24.project.requires-python&style=flat&logo=python&logoColor=fff&label=Python&color=3776AB) ![Jinja Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Jinja-7E0C1B?logo=jinja&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Pages Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Pages-222?logo=githubpages&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Actions Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Actions-2088FF?logo=githubactions&logoColor=fff&style=flat) ![GitHub Copilot Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub%20Copilot-000?logo=githubcopilot&logoColor=fff&style=flat)

 [![BuyMeACoffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/Buy%20Me%20a%20Coffee-ffdd00?logo=buy-me-a-coffee&logoColor=black&style=flat)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/anchildress1) [![dev.to Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/dev.to-0A0A0A?logo=devdotto&logoColor=fff&style=flat)](https://dev.to/anchildress1) [![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-%230077B5.svg?logo=linkedin\&logoColor=white&style=flat)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/anchildress1/)

## What is this?

Auto-generates a static mirror of your Dev.to blog with generous `robots.txt` for AI crawlers. Simple HTML, sitemap, canonical links — zero maintenance.

---

## Quick Setup ⚡

1. Fork this repo
2. Set repository variable: Settings → Actions → Variables → Add `DEVTO_USERNAME`
3. Delete `gh-pages` branch if it exists
4. Run workflow: [Actions → "Generate and Publish Dev.to Mirror Site" → Run workflow](https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror/actions)
5. Enable Pages: Settings → Pages → Deploy from branch → `gh-pages`

Done. Auto-updates weekly (Wednesdays) at 9:40 AM EDT.

---

## How it works

- Fetches posts via Dev.to API (incremental updates via `last_run.txt` timestamp)
- Generates HTML files with canonical links back to Dev.to
- Creates sitemap, robots.txt, index
- Optional: Include special comments as standalone pages via `comments.txt`

**Refresh everything:** Actions → "Generate and Publish Dev.to Mirror Site" and set `force_full_regen` to `true` (creates backup, wipes, regenerates)

---

## Local Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/anchildress1/devto-mirror.git
cd devto-mirror
python -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e '.[dev]'
export DEVTO_USERNAME="your-username"
export PAGES_REPO="your-username/devto-mirror"

# Run tests
python -m unittest

# Run quality checks
pre-commit run --all-files

# Generate site
python scripts/generate_site.py
```

### Local Security & Linting

Install hooks: `pre-commit install`
Run checks: `pre-commit run --all-files`
Manual audit: `pip-audit --progress-spinner=off`

Runs: `bandit`, `flake8`, `detect-secrets`, `pip-audit`

## Workflows

We maintain four primary GitHub Actions workflows. Key changes in this branch:

- `security-ci.yml`: Uses Python 3.11 for dependency installation, runs `pip-audit`, `bandit`, and `flake8`. Adds `workflow_dispatch` for manual testing and enforces least-privilege permissions.
- `codeql.yml`: Runs CodeQL analysis via `github/codeql-action@v3` with Python analysis enabled. Includes `workflow_dispatch` and explicit permissions.
- `publish.yaml`: Now scheduled weekly on Wednesdays at `09:38 AM EDT` (cron `38 13 * * 3`), uses Python 3.11 and deploys to `gh-pages`.
- `refresh.yaml`: Manual `workflow_dispatch` trigger that creates a backup branch, resets `last_run.txt`, and triggers the publish workflow.

All workflows include `workflow_dispatch` to allow manual runs from the Actions UI and use `actions/setup-python@v6` with caching enabled for `pip`.

---

## Documentation 📚

Additional documentation is available in the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory:

- [Security Analysis](./docs/SECURITY_ANALYSIS.md) - Security recommendations; added workflows
- [Crawler Testing](./docs/20251026_CRAWLER_TESTING.md) - Testing crawler accessibility

## License 📄

Every project has to have a stack of fine print somewhere. _Keep going, keep going, keep going..._ Here's mine, as painless as possible:

You know where [the license](./LICENSE) is, but I'll sum it up: **this is not open source** (even though you can still do just about anything you want with it). As long as you're not turning it into the next big SaaS or selling subscriptions in the cloud, then have fun! Else, **you've gotta ask me first.**

Basically? This project's got boundaries. Be cool, don't try to sneak it into a product launch, and we'll get along just fine. 😘
